---
title: "Social"
bg: turquoise     #defined in _config.yml, can use html color like '#010101'
color: black  #text color
style: left
fa-icon: comments
---

<h2 class="text-white">Don't let trolls see your private thoughts and experiences.</h2>

<em>Disclaimer: This section assumes you have read or skimmed the previous and have already taken advantage of basic security practices like <a href="#twofactor">two-factor authentication</a>, <a href="#strongpasswords">strong passwords</a>, <a href="#privacyextensions">browser extensions</a>, <a href="#phoneencryption">phone encryption</a>, and <a href="#computerencryption">computer encryption</a>. All of those points are incredibly crucial for protecting your social media and communications, but we will not reiterate them here in-depth.</em>

We socialize on the internet. We make digital friends through social media, we do our organizing through social media, and do much of our communication through social media. Since this all accomplished through elaborate networks of different tech companies (easily accessible to government surveillance), <strong>it’s near impossible to guarantee true privacy when relying on private companies for connecting to friends online</strong>. Developers, IT workers, marketers, and countless other people can see even your most intimate messages and media. And because most of these companies store big data indefinitely, your conversations today or yesterday can still be threatened years in the future.

We'll first walk you through suggestions on how to leverage existing security options across social media platforms. Even better, we'll explore free, open-source alternatives to chats and emails so that when you need to, you can have <em>truly</em> private conversations that can withstand even the most determined hackers and surveillance.


<hr>
<div id="privacysettings">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Know your <strong>Social Media Security</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
The first step to securing your social life is to simply get familiar with the privacy and security options that are available to you. While these options will not stop marketers, rogue developers, or government surveillance from accessing your data, they can make it much more difficult for an inexperienced troll to hack or abuse you. Because security options and strategies can differ significantly across platforms, we'll walk through a few common points that you should keep in mind whenever using a social media service.
<br>
<br>

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white">Watch out for Phishing schemes and other social engineering</h5>
<br>
Social Engineering, the psychological manipulation of targets, is by far the most popular way to hack social media accounts. Read up on <a href="#phishing">Social Engineering</a> in our Hacking section so you can be aware of these sorts of threats! Basically, <strong>never give your password to anyone, never log-in to an account from an unfamiliar link or website, and try not to use your social media accounts to log into other websites</strong>. Only log-in to your social media accounts through their official site in your browser or through the official apps.
</div>

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white">Use Two-Factor Authentication and Strong Passwords</h5>
<br>
Hacking a social media account is very easy if your account only requires a simple password. But this hacking is very easy to avoid! If you have set-up <a href="#twofactor">Two-Factor Authentication</a> and <a href="#strongpasswords">Strong Passwords</a> for your accounts (as detailed earlier in the guide), a malicious troll would need both extremely powerful computers AND personal access to your phone/computer, simultaneously. Because these technologies are so easy to implement, they are undoubtedly one of the <em>best</em> steps to take to protecting your social media.
</div>

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white">Beware Geotagging</h5>
<br>
Many social media services will use GPS data from your phone or IP address location from your computer to associate a physical location to your posts. This information is often freely exposed to developers, meaning anyone that can see your posts could easily find out very sensitive information about your home and travel habits. Many sites, like Twitter, offer an option to disable geotagging in their privacy settings, so look for that option on any site you post content or media to. A more comprehensive solution (though more advanced) is to use a <a href="#vpn">Virtual Private Network</a> so all of your activity appears to be coming from a random datacenter somewhere.
</div>

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white">Don't trust apps that require access to your account</h5>
<br>
It's very popular to use apps both within a social media site (for instance, a Facebook app) and outside a site (for instance, a Snapchat utility). However, when you sign-up for these apps, you often expose a <em>ton</em> of personal data: your identity, your pictures, your messages, your friends. While this may not seem like a big deal, it means that you are trusting unknown developers with deeply personal information. <strong>Many of these app services are created by inexperienced programmers that do not have the resources to adequately protect your data (if they even care)</strong>. More frequently, they're just interested in harvesting your data for marketing money. Unless you really, really need the app, reconsider whether you want some randos seeing everything you do on a social media site.
</div>

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white">Get comfortable with your site's Privacy settings</h5>
<br>
Every social media site has different security capabilities, some more comprehensive than others. You should check out these quick privacy guides for your favorite sites and understand which tools you have at your disposal.<br>
<br>
<ul>
	<li><a href="https://www.facebook.com/about/basics/how-to-keep-your-account-secure/">Facebook</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://support.twitter.com/groups/57-safety-security#">Twitter</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://heresthethingblog.com/2014/01/14/7-privacy-tips-instagram-newbies/">Instagram</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://support.snapchat.com/en-US/a/privacy-settings">Snapchat</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://www.tumblr.com/docs/en/account_security">Tumblr</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://help.linkedin.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/267/~/account-security-and-privacy---best-practices">LinkedIn</a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<hr>
<div id="otr">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Use super-strong encryption for your messaging with <strong>Signal</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
It’s very common to use a messaging program like Facebook Chat or Google Hangouts to talk to friends: you can use the same service across devices fairly easily and always have access to your conversations. Unfortunately, these conversations are subjected to intense data mining for marketers and government agencies. And if anyone were to ever hack or leak your account, they could see years and years of private conversations because that data never goes away.

Luckily, there’s a great open-source, secure, and free alternative to standard corporate chat services. <strong>Signal is an app for encrypting texts so that the content of your messages can’t be seen by anyone other than you and the person you’re talking to.</strong> It can be used for one-on-one messages, groupchats, and even phone calls.

<code>Check out our section on <a href="#sms">Signal</a> to get started!</code><br>

<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your email conversations with <strong>PGP</strong></h3>
</p>
The de facto standard for secure communications is PGP encryption, which you might remember from the <a href="#data">Data section</a> (you might want to go back and read about how encryption works since we won’t repeat it here). Email, like most things, is ruthlessly mined by the email services (that’s why they’re free, after all). <strong>PGP, which standards for Pretty Good Privacy, allows you to encrypt emails (and pretty much anything else) with a super high level of sophistication</strong>. This is preferable to instant messaging because:
<br>
<ol>
	<li>The recipient needs to use a password to unencrypt anything you send them, so it’s significantly harder for a thief or hacker to get access to your email</li>
	<li>You can digitally “sign” your email, better proving that you were the one who wrote the email.</li>
	<li>You can often find people’s public keys (the thing you need to encrypt a message for them) online, allowing you to encrypt things for friends, colleagues, and professionals very easily.</li>
</ol>

These guides, although fairly involved, offer great instruction in how to set-up PGP with your email. Any email address can be used with PGP encryption!

<code>The Electronic Frontier Foundation offers in-depth guides for installing PGP on <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-pgp-mac-os-x">OS X</a> as well as <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-pgp-windows-pc">Windows</a></code>
