---
title: "Data"
bg: blue     #defined in _config.yml, can use html color like '#010101'
color: black  #text color
style: left
fa-icon: shield
---

<h2 class="text-white">Own your files, pictures, and media.</h2>

You’re a tech-savvy cyberpunk: your accounts are secure, your browsing is encrypted, and you’re enjoying the internet from the cozy confines of your VPN. What happens when someone steals your laptop? Or if your cloud service gets hacked? What if that cool new app has a bug that lets hackers download your data?

<strong>If you have files, pictures, or any kind of media that is not encrypted, it is NOT private and you should assume that someone or something can see it.</strong>

Unfortunately, a side-effect of having so much wonderful tech available to us is that we put a lot of trust in the developers and companies that make that tech possible. We give them our pictures, our textual communications, or any number of data and rely on them to make sure it stays safe. While hackers are an obvious and universal threat, we also need to consider the possibility that a malicious app developer could read the private data you’ve sent on their app. Government surveillance could read your texts. Someone stealing your laptop could figure out your password and have access to everything you’ve saved on the hard-drive. This is why encryption is key: it’s the most secure thing you can do to guarantee that your data is only for the eyes of whom YOU deem necessary.

Before we explain the different ways you can encrypt your data, it might help to explain what encryption is. Feel free to skip ahead to encryption approaches if you’re already comfortable with encryption.
<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">What Is Encryption?</h3>
</p>
Encryption keeps unwanted people from reading your data. It does this by transforming your data into completely unintelligible nonsense so that no-one but the intended receiver can figure out what it is. It’s really just secret code. So how does this code get created?

Encryption, at its core, is mathematical functions dependent on two variables: your data and a piece of information called an encryption key. Although there are many different approaches, most frequently an encryption key comes in two related flavors: the public key and the private key. When you want to encrypt data for someone, you use their public key to “lock it”. When they want to read that encrypted data, they use their private key to “unlock it”.

How do the keys get used? As an example, let’s say you want to send a private message to a friend in an email. To first encrypt your data, you pass your data and your friend’s public key into an encryption function: this produces a jumble of letters and numbers called “ciphertext”. If anyone were to read this ciphertext, it’d be nearly impossible to figure out what it means. When your friend wants to read it, they pass this ciphertext into another encryption function along with their private key; this produces your original data. Think of it like dropping a letter into a locked mailbox: once you put it in the mailbox, only someone with the key to that mailbox can open it and read the letter.

This is a very simplistic explanation, but all-in-all it’s what you need to know to use encryption. Most of the extensions and tech from earlier sections do this process for you when internet browsing. There are also apps that can do this for your files on your computer as well. However, if you want to encrypt text in an email or in a Google doc, or don’t want to risk using an app for local files, then you can manually do the encryption with free encryption software as well.
<hr>
<div id="computerencryption">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Batten down the hatches: <strong>Encrypt your hard-drive!</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
So, say your laptop gets stolen. Boo to that! Computers are expensive :(

Chances are you have sensitive files you wouldn’t want Thief-Asshole to see. <strong>If you encrypt your hard-drive, Thief-Assholes won’t be able to barge into your laptop and see all of your data! </strong>This style of encryption works by encrypting your entire computer every time you shut it off. When you start-up, you have to enter your encryption password (a strong one, we hope!) so the hard-drive is decrypted and becomes usable. The important thing to remember is that this only protects your computer if the computer has been turned off; if a malicious person gets access to your computer while you’re logged-in, then your files are still vulnerable (you’ll want to encrypt the actual files with <a href="#pgp">PGP</a> as the next level of precaution).

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white"><strong>Hard-drive Encryption</strong></h5>
<br>
OS X comes with software, File Vault 2, already installed on your computer that can do this hard-drive encryption for you. All you have to do is set it up according to <a href="http://support.apple.com/kb/ht4790">Apple's instructions</a>.<br>
<br>
Windows 10 will encrypt your hard-drive by default, as detailed <a href="http://www.howtogeek.com/234826/how-to-enable-full-disk-encryption-on-windows-10/">here</a>. However, if you have an earlier version of Windows, you can use the software <a href="http://www.howtogeek.com/192894/how-to-set-up-bitlocker-encryption-on-windows/">Bitlocker</a>.<br>

<br>
<strong>Make sure to remember your encryption password!</strong> If you were to forget this, all of your computer's data would be irretrievably lost. It's also important to note that while hard drive encryption is a great deterrent for a casual thief or troll trying to physically access your computer, it would not be effective against a more sophisticated attacker (like a government tech force). If that is your concern, you'll want to manually encrypt your most important files with <a href="#pgp">PGP</a>.
</div>

A very important thing to keep in mind is BACK-UPS. Sure, it’s great to encrypt your hard-drive, but if your computer is stolen, you’ve still lost all that data. If you back-up your computer on external hard-drives, make sure to <strong>encrypt your external hard-drive</strong> as well. What good is encrypting your computer if someone can just grab your external hard-drive and have easy access to your private data? No good, that's what! See our HEAD IN THE CLOUDS section below on how to back-up files to an encrypted cloud as well.

<hr>
<div id="pgp">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Get your hands dirty: <strong>Encrypt your files and emails manually!</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
For the advanced cyberpunks out there, being able to encrypt files and email is a crucial asset. This is especially great if you want to send private information to another person that you absolutely -need- to stay private: encrypted email has the benefit that only the recipient will ever be able to see that emails contents, regardless of the email service being used or interest by surveillance tech. <strong>Being able to manually encrypt a file means you have greater control encrypting files for other people (who are also using encryption), or even just yourself.</strong>

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white"><strong>Pretty Good Privacy</strong></h5>
<br>
Pretty Good Privacy is a technology that you can use on any operating system to encrypt emails and files, as well as signing data (basically adding a digital signature proving that your encryption keys were properly used) and verifying signatures (making sure that someone else’s signature is legit). This is a bit more advanced to set-up, but not too difficult if you have an hour or so and bit of patience. Once you’re done, encrypting files and emails will be a breeze!<br>
<br>
It’s very important to consider what would happen if your encryption keys were lost (say if your laptop was stolen or broken): anything that had been encrypted for you to see would be lost forever. If you have files or email you need encrypted and accessible that absolutely cannot be lost, you need to back-up your keys. From whichever PGP program you installed, you should have an option to export keys. Save these keys on a thumb drive and keep them somewhere incredibly safe.<br>
<br>
The Electronic Frontier Foundation offers in-depth guides for installing PGP on <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-pgp-mac-os-x">OS X</a> as well as <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-pgp-windows-pc">Windows</a>.<br>
</div>

<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Head in the clouds: <strong>Back-up your files in an encrypted cloud!</strong></h3>
</p>
Chances are you use a service like Dropbox or Google Drive to sync files to the cloud. While nifty, these services are liable to share your files with “interested parties” if compelled. And if they were ever hacked, all of your files would be open for the internet to see. Like most things in life, these services are much better when using encryption: if the files are encrypted in the cloud, and decrypted on your computer, you get the same functionality as Dropbox or Google Drive without nearly as much security risk!

<code>There are numerous services out there that offer encrypted cloud storage, so check out <a href="http://lifehacker.com/the-best-cloud-storage-services-that-protect-your-priva-729639300">Lifehacker's guide to cloud storage services</a> to figure out what’s right for you.</code>

<strong>SECURITY TIP</strong>: Make sure to ALWAYS back-up your files locally in addition to syncing them to the cloud. If your cloud service suddenly died for whatever reason, you’d be awfully vulnerable (and your laptop would probably get stolen that same week or something because the world is cruel). Back up your most important files to an external hard-drive, which you should -definitely- encrypt as well (as detailed in the previous sections).
