---
title: "Phones"
bg: orange
color: black
style: left
fa-icon: phone
---

<h2 class="text-white">Phones will never be secure but you might as well try.</h2>

Protecting your laptop or desktop is great, but what about threats to your privacy & security when you’re on your phone? Smartphones are uniquely desirable targets for malicious threats because they carry so much concentrated personal information about you. The GPS in your phone can track your physical location throughout the day. Much of your communications with friends, often with sensitive information or pictures, are stored in accessible texts. Often times your emails, pictures, videos, files, and all sorts of other important data are stored amongst your apps.

<strong>While smartphones are huge asset for functionality and convenience, the tradeoff is less control over your digital space.</strong> You have to trust your Apps to use your data safely. You have to trust your operating system to withstand hacking. You have to trust your cell provider to not interfere with your data or calls. You have to hope nobody malicious takes control of your phone. Before we delve any further, it's really important we emphasize that phone security is far less developed than regular computer security, often with much less visibility into how data is managed and used, with much fewer options for security. <strong>Although there are many great tools for phone security, they're not comprehensive and will not stop data-mining, physical tracking, or monitoring.</strong>

So with so much personal information at risk, how can you use your smartphone without taking steps to protect your digital autonomy? <strong>Encrypt! Encrypt! Encrypt!</strong> As you secure your digital space, it’s important to recognize that apps do not only have to be a threat to your security: they can also be an asset. Some of the most sensitive data on your phone, from your pictures to your texts to your internet browsing can be secured to decent degree. And the most common thread should be a familiar one: Encryption!

<strong>By encrypting your phone and the data found on it, you can have greater assurance that if something were to happen to phone (whether it be stolen or hacked), you’d still have protections in place.<strong> We’re going to walk through a few recommendations for ways you can encrypt your files, your texts, and even your phone calls.

<hr>
<div id="phoneencryption">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your data: <strong>Phone Encryption on iOS and Android</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
Just as you can encrypt your computer so no-one can dig around on your hard-drive without a password, you can encrypt your phone. This is especially important because if you were ever to have your phone stolen or confiscated; you definitely wouldn’t want someone to have free reign over all the pictures, videos, texts, and contacts on your phone. iOS and Android have different ways to accomplish hardware encryption, so feel free to read whichever is appropriate for you (note that iOS8 enables encryption by default, though older versions do not). We’ve linked to some nifty guides that can explain the process better than we can :)

<code>Encryption on iOS via <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-encrypt-your-iphone">instructions from Electronic Frontier Foundation</a></code><br>
<code>Encryption on android via <a href="http://www.greenbot.com/article/2145380/why-and-how-to-encrypt-your-android-device.html">a guide from Greenbot</a></code>

<hr>
<div id="sms">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your <strong>texts</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
Texts can be some of the most personal and private communications we have. They’re also especially vulnerable to being seen by others: your cell network can see them as they’re being sent (as can any government agency who’s chummy with that network). Anyone with access to your phone could read them too (hopefully you encrypted your phone to avoid this!). Lucky for you, there are some really awesome apps that will encrypt your texts across both iOS and Android to ensure truly private conversations.

<div class="recommend">
	<h5 class="text-white"><strong>Signal</strong></h5>
<br>
Signal is free, open-source app for encrypted texting by the security gurus at <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Whisper_Systems">Open Whisper Systems</a>. When you send a text to a friend that is also using Signal, the text will be encrypted so that only you and your friend can read the text on your phones. This happens automatically without any effort on your part! And the only information available to people monitoring the cell network is who sent the text, who received it, and when it was received: they cannot see the contents of the text.<br>
<br>
Texts sent to friends <em>not</em> on Signal will be unencrypted, but having the option makes these apps perfect as your general purpose texting app. Especially nifty is that regardless of whether your texts were encrypted for the recipient, they will be encrypted locally on your phone. So if someone ever got control of your phone, they would still need to decrypt your app (and your phone!) to see your stored messages (which the vast majority of thieves and hackers could not do).<br>
<br>
The Electronic Frontier Foundation offers guides for using <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-signal-ios">Signal on iOS</a> and <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/node/93/">Signal on Android</a>.<br>
</div>
<hr>
<div id="phonecalls">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your <strong>calls</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
Wiretapping is practically an American tradition. If there are ever times where you would not feel comfortable or safe having a phone call monitored, you should consider using a phone app whose specialty is encrypting your calls. Most apps accomplish this by sending your conversation over your data connection rather than your cellular network connection, thus allowing the 1s and 0s to be encrypted before reaching your conversation partner.

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white"><strong>Encrypted Call Apps</strong></h5>
<br>
We recommend using <strong>Signal</strong>, which is available for both iOS and Android. Both are free, open-source encrypted call apps developed by the fantastic <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Whisper_Systems">Open Whisper Systems</a>. Make sure to note that encrypted phone calls only work when the person you're calling also uses these apps. Also, be aware that calls can be a bit harder to hear when they're encrypted.<br>
<br>
The Electronic Frontier Foundation offers guides for using <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-signal-ios">Signal on iOS</a> and <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/node/93/">Signal on Android</a>.<br>
</div>

<hr>
<div id="phonevpn">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your <strong>smartphone browsing</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
You're in luck! You have a wonderful set of easy and effective options for securing the web activity on your phone. Just check out our <a href="#mobilebrowsing">mobile browsing</a> section and download either <a href="#firefoxfocus">Firefox Focus</a> for iOS or <a href="#firefoxandroid">Firefox for Android</a>.

Earlier in the guide, we talked about securing your <a href="#vpn">web browsing with a VPN</a>. Fortunately, you can use a VPN on your phone as well! If you already have a VPN provider, it’s relatively easy to set-up on your phone. Follow Apple’s instructions for iOS or check out OpenVPN (our recommended VPN client for Android).<br>
<br>
<code>Follow <a href="https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201533">Apple's instructions</a> for configuring your VPN on iOS.</code><br>
<code>Install <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.openvpn.openvpn&hl=en">OpenVPN</a> to enable VPN on Android.</code>
<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Final Thoughts on Cell Phone Security</h3>
</p>
You’ve thoroughly vetted all your apps. You encrypt your phone, your texts, and even some of your phone calls. Your phone is a fortress! Or is it?

<strong>The most crucial thing to remember is that no phone is 100% secure.</strong> If you are ever in a situation where personal safety is absolutely necessary, such as attending an event with significant police presence or avoiding an abusive/predatory person, consider leaving your phone at home until you feel safe, or use a disposable phone. Turning your phone off for a bit, and then back on, actually triggers some government surveillance programs, so don’t try it if you’re going to a demonstration or something. Consider buying a burner phone just if you can afford it. These approaches aren’t always possible though; this guide cannot tell you what is right for you. But your digital space is yours to manage: whatever action you decide is the right one.
