---
title: "Intro"
bg: white
color: black
style: left


---

<h1 class="text-blue">A DIY Guide to Feminist Cybersecurity</h1>
<div class="container center">
	<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:100px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
		<i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
		<i class="fa fa-lock fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
	</span>
</div>
<p>
	<h2 class="text-blue">Take control of your digital spaces.</h2>
</p>
<br>
The internet is a crucial environment for our lives. Friendships, relationships, work, activism, commerce, and so many other forms of social connections take place digitally. As we thrive in these internet spaces, harassment and violence along intersecting axes of oppression are felt with unchecked force. Trolls launch campaigns of abuse and intimidation, hackers seek to exploit and manipulate your private data, and companies mine and sell your activity for profit. These threats to digital autonomy are gendered, racialized, queerphobic, transphobic, ableist, and classist in nature. The severity of these threats can have vast physical and psychological repercussions for those who experience them: they cannot be taken lightly.

Digital spaces are unique in that you often have to rely on companies and developers to protect your well being and data as you go about your digital life. These companies and developers frequently ignore or underestimate the digital threats to these spaces and their users. There is little in the way of accountability for companies and developers, all the while users are left with little support for the violence they’ve encountered, even being blamed for actions of a malicious attacker.

<strong>You have a right to exist safely in digital spaces.</strong> Although we have to rely on outside parties for technology to access these spaces, there are <em>tons</em> of helpful tools and strategies that allow you to take greater control of your digital life and mitigate the risk of malicious threats. We’ll walk through common areas of digital life such as web browsing, private data, and smartphones to show you different ways that you can implement as much or little security as you’re comfortable with. You have power to set boundaries and protections in your digital spaces as you see fit: we hope that this guide will help you to make informed, personal decisions on what is right for you.

<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-blue">How to use this guide</h3>
</p>
<br>
This guide is intended to be a comprehensive and accessible introduction to some of the most valuable cybersecurity tools available. There's <em>a lot</em> of information here, so it can get a bit overwhelming! Feel free to read each section at your own pace: there's no obligation to read through the whole guide and install every piece of tech we recommend. Consider checking out our <a href="#cheatsheet">Cheat Sheet</a> section as a quick way to get started with the tools that best meet your digital security needs. Don't worry if some of the tech is a bit confusing: even experienced techies can get a bit disoriented at first, but rarely do you need to know every inner-working of a tool in order to take advantage of it. If at any point you have questions or concerns, feel free to tweet this guide's creator at <a href="https://twitter.com/ciakraa">@ciakraa</a> or email at <a href="mailto:noah@hackblossom.org">noah@hackblossom.org</a> and he will try to help as quickly as he can!

We also have a Spanish version of this guide, <a href="https://es.hackblossom.org/cybersecurity/">Guía de Seguridad Digital para Feministas Autogestivas</a>. Check it out!
